TinyMCE 6.3 Release Notes (#2574)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/6.3-release-notes.adoc

* xref:new-premium-plugins[New Premium plugins]
* xref:accompanying-premium-plugin-changes[Accompanying Premium Plugin changes]
* xref:accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes[Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes]
* xref:improvements[Improvements]
* xref:additions[Additions]
* xref:changes[Changes]
* xref:bug-fixes[Bug fixes]
* xref:security-fixes[Security fixes]
* xref:known-issues[Known issues]

[[new-premium-plugins]]
== New Premium plugins

=== Inline CSS 1.0.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes the new **Inline CSS** premium plugin.

As is normal and long-time best practice, TinyMCE documents keep CSS and HTML separate. This practice is not, however, email-friendly.

The Inline CSS plugin takes a TinyMCE document, and processes it such that the previously separate CSS is applied inline to each HTML element. This single output file is much closer to the common requirements for sending as an HTML-formatted email.

For information on the **Inline CSS** plugin, see: xref:inline-css.adoc[Inline CSS].

=== Advanced Typography 1.0.1

The {productname} 6.3 release includes the new **Advanced typography** premium plugin.

> The **Advanced Typography** plugin, depending on its setting, can replace common typewriter-style characters with their professional typesetter equivalents after the _Advanced Typography_ button is pressed. This action will modify either the entire content for the {productname} document or the specific text selection highlighted by the user.

Author: To quote my commit message:

> Edits to Advanced Typography introductory text consequent to notes from @tiny-ben-tran.

In previous {productname} versions a bug existed that allowed comments to be placed into an empty editor or block.

With this update, the comments button, menu-item, comment sidebar and shortcut keys are now disabled when the editor contains no content.

==== The selection now expands to encompass the word containing the insertion point when a comment is added

{productname} 6.3 adds xref:additions[two new API functions] — `tinymce.selection` and `tinymce.dom.RangeUtils`.

With these two functions available, if there is no selected text when a new comment is added, {productname} automatically extends the selection to encompass the word containing the insertion point and links the newly added comment to this automatically selected word.

For information on the **Comments** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-comments.adoc[Introduction to Tiny Comments].

=== Merge Tags 1.1.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Merge Tags** premium plugin.

**Merge Tags** 1.1.0 includes one addition, one fix, and one change:

==== New mceMergeTag command to wrap selected content in a merge tag

> A new command, `mceMergeTag` has been added which can convert any string into a merge tag. This new command is available to use when defining xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[Text Patterns].

Reviewer: Again these are not the right terms. String is a data type. We can convert string to another data type like a number. For example: "five" => 5. Merge tag is the object of a rich text document (others are image, link, text, ...). It is just wrapped in specific braces noneditable text. So we can not convert the string to the merge tag. But we can convert selected text to a merge tag.

> A new command, `mceMergeTag` has been added which can convert any string into a merge tag. This new command is available to use when defining xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[Text Patterns].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new command, `mceMergeTag` has been added which can convert any selected text into a merge tag. This new command is available to use when defining xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[Text Patterns].
```

> A new command, `mceMergeTag` has been added which can convert the current editor context into a merge tag. This new command is available to use when defining xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[Text Patterns].

Reviewer: As the header of this section says, this command converts currently selected content. Is that what you mean by editor context?

Reviewer 2: This one is my fault, and stems from the fact that a selection sounds like a ranged selection, whereas this can work from a collapsed selection. And it isn't really that the collapsed selection is extended to the word, because it can be fired on hitting `<space>` (when using text patterns), so it's just slightly different from that. But selection is probably fine. Using a different term for it probably just adds too much confusion.

Author: To quote the message from my just-now commit:

> Edits to New mceMergeTag command section.
> 
> Edits are aimed at improving the explanation while simultaneously removing ambiguity because some words have both general and term-of-art meaning in this context.

> A new command, `mceMergeTag` has been added which can convert any string that include Merge Tag delimiter characters into a merge tag. This new command is available to use when defining xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[Text Patterns].

Reviewer: > A new command, `mceMergeTag` has been added which can convert any string that include Merge Tag delimiter characters into a merge tag.

That is not correct. The command can be applied to any selected content that does not necessarily contain merge tag delimited characters but instead wraps selected content in the prefix and suffix and then makes the result noneditable.

Author: to quote from [this commit](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/pull/2574/commits/5ecada0a466638b65027a8fff094fd0889ed3e9e):

> Regarding mceMergeTag introductory material: further corrections to further corrections.

> Previously only a predefined list of merge tags could be used. When the new `mceMergeTag` command is added, any valid Merge Tag string can be converted into a merge tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously only a predefined list of merge tags could be used. When the new `mceMergeTag` command is added, any selected text can be converted into a merge tag.
```

> As well, configuring the inline `text_pattern` with this command allows merge tags to be entered by manual typing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As well, configuring the inline `text_patterns` with this command allows merge tags to be entered by manual typing.
```

> Type the prefix, some content, the suffix, and then a word boundary character, and the `mceMergeTag` command will immediately wrap that content in a complete merge tag.

Reviewer 3: How about references to the usage of `text_patterns` option here.

Author: That’s what the paragraph above does:

1. configuring the inline `text_pattern` with this command [ie, `mceMergeTags`] allows…
2. example of what such configuring allows.

In the following example, the Merge Tag prefix and suffix are the default, `{{` and `}}`

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea', // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'mergetags',
  text_patterns: [
    { start: '{{', end: '}}', cmd: 'mceMergeTag' }
  ],
  mergetags_list: [
    {
      value: 'merge.tag',
      title: 'A merge tag.'
    },
  ],
  toolbar: 'mergetags',
});
----

> In this example, typing `{{string}}` followed by a word boundary character (such as a space, full-stop, question mark or comma) will result in the _string_ being turned into an active merge tag.

Reviewer 3: I would be much better if this line is above the example

Author: Respectfully disagree here. The current structure is

1. Intro to example and example setup
2. Example itself
3. Using the example.

Pushing _Using the example_ above _Example itself_ is, to me, putting the cart before the horse.

==== Merge tags cannot exceed 255 characters in length

In {productname} 6.3 a new character limit was introduced: merge tags cannot, now, exceed 255 characters.

With this change, all merge tags are now subject to this limit including those predefined in the `mergetags_list` option.

In {productname} 6.3, to support this feature, the editor will check all merge tag lengths to ensure they do not exceed 255 characters. 

> In the event the merge tag length exceeds this, the item will not be accepted by the editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the event the merge tag length exceeds this, the item will be inserted as plain text.
```

As a consequence, when either the Text color or Background color toolbar menus are opened, if the selected Text color or Background color matches one of the colors available from the appropriate color swatch menu, that color is pre-selected.

[[additions]]
== Additions

{productname} 6.3 also includes the following additions:

=== New expand functions added to tinymce.selection and tinymce.dom.RangeUtils which expand the selection around the nearest word.

{productname} 6.3 introduced two new API functions that allow a user to select a word from the insertion point location which applies a new expand feature.

This new `tinymce.selection` API function allows {productname} users and developers to expand the selection range to contain the entire word when the selection is collapsed within the word.

To support this new API function, {productname} 6.3 also introduced `tinymce.dom.RangeUtils`, which focuses on a new `expand` method range that expands around the entire word that the user selection was collapsed within by the `tinymce.selection` API function.

> If, in the following example, a user places the insertion point between the first and second `m` in the word, `comment`, then clicks the _Add comment_ toolbar button, or selects _Insert > Add comment_ from the TinyMCE menu, or presses the _Add comment_ keyboard shortcut  (eg ⌘+⌥+M) — 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If, in the following example, a user places the insertion point between the first and second `m` in the word, `comment`, then clicks the _Add comment_ toolbar button, or selects _Insert > Add comment_ from the TinyMCE menu, or presses the _Add comment_ keyboard shortcut (eg ⌘+⌥+M) — 
```

The **Advanced Typography** plugin, depending on its setting, can replace common typewriter-style characters with their professional typesetter equivalents after the _Advanced Typography_ button is pressed. This action will modify either the entire {productname} document or the text selected by the user.

For information on the **Advanced typography** plugin, see: xref:advanced-typography.adoc[Advanced typography].

There is one known issue in **Advanced Typography** 1.0.1:

==== Switching the Advanced Typography target language does not always work as expected

Selecting a language from the *Advanced Typography* toolbar button’s menu, runs the rules for the newly selected over the current {productname} document.

In some circumstances, switching the target language in this fashion does not result in typesetting changes as expected. This is most visibly apparent with quotation marks.

The British English typesetting norm is to use opening and closing single-quote marks to denote direct quotation: *‘* and *’*.

The American English typesetting norm is to use opening and closing double-quote marks to denote direct quotation: *“* and *”*.

> And one Spanish typesetting norm is to use guillemets, also known as comillas angulares, comillas franceses or chevrons, to denote direct quotation: *«* and *»*.

Reviewer 4: "comilla franceses"-> comillas francesas

Author: ```suggestion
And one Spanish typesetting norm is to use guillemets, also known as comillas angulares, comillas francesas or chevrons, to denote direct quotation: *«* and *»*.
```

When the alternative text exceeds 100 characters, an *Image alternative text should be less than 100 characters* warning presents.

This dialog also presents the alternative text in an editable field, for immediate repair.

==== The discoverability of the question mark button in warning dialogs was improved

Many **Accessibility Checker** dialogs include a question mark icon. This icon is a link to further information about the discovered issue.

This update includes changes to the presentation of this icon to make discoverability as a clickable button more apparent.

==== The legibility of warning dialogs was improved

In concert with the changes noted above to the question mark icon in **Accessibility Checker** dialogs, legibility improvements were made to the presentation and typography of these dialogs.

The icon’s text was centered and the *Issue*, *Warning*, or *Error* sub-heading’s font size was reduced.

Additionally, borders were removed from the exterior of the description field and contrast colors were adjusted to match the background color of the icons added for this release.

> ==== Replaced the single warning icon presented in dialogs with icons specific to each alert level;

Reviewer 5: The heading line has a semi-colon at the end - this appears inconsistent with the other similar lines.

Author: ```suggestion
==== Replaced the single warning icon presented in dialogs with icons specific to each alert level
```

Previously, all **Accessibility Checker** warning dialogs presented with a triangle warning icon, regardless of whether the alert was informational, a warning, or an error.

In {productname} 6.3, improvements for the accessibility checker were added to provide additional support for users when trying to identify different alerts such as _info_, _warning_ or _error_ icons.

In previous versions of {productname} the accessibility checker used the same triangle warning icon for all alerts when displayed. In {productname} 6.3, each alert type now displays a unique icon.

> * Warning alerts now display as an exclamation mark nested inside a yellow circle.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Warning alerts now display as an exclamation mark nested inside a yellow octagon.
```
Minor change, but the notice icon is an octagon, not a circle.

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Checklist** premium plugin.

**Checklist** 2.0.2 includes one fix:

==== Checklist toggling did not preserve selection when used on an existing list

In previous {productname} versions, when selecting content over either an ordered or unordered list, then switching the list to a checklist, the user’s content selection was not preserved.

In {productname} 6.3, the user selection is now preserved when toggling a list to a checklist.

For information on the **Checklist** plugin, see xref:checklist.adoc[Checklist].

=== Comments 3.2.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Comments** premium plugin.

**Comments** 3.2.0 includes one fix and one change:

==== A comment could be inserted when in an empty editor or block

In previous {productname} versions a bug existed that allowed comments to be placed into an empty editor or block.

With this update, the comments button, menu-item, comment sidebar and shortcut keys are now disabled when the editor contains no content.

==== The selection now expands to encompass the word containing the insertion point when a comment is added

> {productname} 6.3 adds xref:additions[two new API functions] — `tinymce.selection` and `tinymce.dom.RangeUtils`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
{productname} 6.3 adds xref:additions[two new API functions] — `tinymce.selection` and `tinymce.dom.RangeUtils.expand`.
```
RangeUtils already exists and is not new in 6.3, it is the expand method added to the API which is new.

With these two functions available, if there is no selected text when a new comment is added, {productname} automatically extends the selection to encompass the word containing the insertion point and links the newly added comment to this automatically selected word.

For information on the **Comments** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-comments.adoc[Introduction to Tiny Comments].

=== Merge Tags 1.1.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Merge Tags** premium plugin.

**Merge Tags** 1.1.0 includes one addition, one fix, and one change:

> ==== New mceMergeTag command to wrap selected content in a merge tag

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
==== New `mceMergeTag` command to wrap selected content in a merge tag
```
Missing code formatting for code

If a `lang` attribute existed anywhere in that ancestry, this ancestral `lang` attribute value overrode all attempts by the user to set the spell checking language for the document.

As of {productname} 6.3, the `lang` attribute inherits the default settings for the {productname} editor body. As a consequence, the editor no longer searches elements external to the editor body when searching for `lang` attributes.

For information on the **Spellchecker Pro** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker.adoc[Spellchecker Pro].

=== Spelling Autocorrect 1.0.1

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Spelling Autocorrect** premium plugin.

**Spelling Autocorrect** 1.0.1 includes one fix:

==== Fixed format changes at the start of sentences when auto-capitalization was on

When **Spelling Autocorrect** was active and had Capitalization enabled (ie had `autocorrect_capitalize: true` set), any inline formatting applied at the beginning of a new sentence, after a full stop (period) but before the start of the word, would be lost when the word was auto-capitalized. Instead, the format at the end of the previous sentence was incorrectly applied. 

> This update to the **Spelling Autocorrect** premium plugin removed redundant ‘pre-text’ punctuation, before the word at the start of the sentence being capitalized, from start and replacement of text-pattern.

Reviewer 6: This line shouldn't be documented, the text-patterns used in the spelling autocorrect plugin are all internal and private.

Author: To quote my commit message:

> Went generic on explanation of the change to the Spelling Autocorrect plugin.

=== Premium Skins and Icon Packs

The **Premium Skins and Icon Packs** release includes the following updates:

The **Premium Skins and Icon Packs** were rebuilt to pull in the changes also incorporated into the default {productname} 6.3 skin, Oxide.

For information on using premium skins and icon packs, see: xref:premium-skins-and-icons.adoc[Premium Skins and Icon Packs].

[[improvements]]
== Improvements

{productname} 6.3 also includes the following improvements

=== The Text color and Background color menus now display a check mark denoting the currently selected color

Previously, the color swatches displayed when the Text color and Background color menus were opened gave no indication as to whether or not the Text color or Background color of the current selection was one of the colors displayed in these menus.

With this update, when the selected text’s current Text color or Background color matches one of the colors available from the appropriate color swatch menu, a check mark (the ✔️ character, also known as a tick) displays over that color.

=== Text color and Background color toolbar menus now pre-select the color for the selected text or insertion point position.

> {productname} 6.3 included an improvement to the Text color or Background color menus that allows the user to identify the pre-populated color for the selected-text: a ✔️ character displayed over the color that matches the currently selected Text color or Background color.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
{productname} 6.3 included an improvement to the Text color or Background color menus that allows the user to identify the pre-populated color for the selected-text: a tick/checkmark icon displayed over the color that matches the currently selected Text color or Background color.
```
The image used to overlay the selected color is an svg icon of a checkmark, not a character. Either tick or checkmark is fine to use.

Author: ```suggestion
{productname} 6.3 included an improvement to the Text color or Background color menus that allows the user to identify the pre-populated color for the selected-text: a checkmark (also known as a tick or tickmark) displayed over the color that matches the currently selected Text color or Background color.
```

In addition to this, in {productname} 6.3, `getCurrentColor` checks for the first found `backcolor` and `forecolor` color before the parent color, based on the current selection or insertion point position.

As a consequence, when either the Text color or Background color toolbar menus are opened, if the selected Text color or Background color matches one of the colors available from the appropriate color swatch menu, that color is pre-selected.

[[additions]]
== Additions

{productname} 6.3 also includes the following additions:

=== New expand functions added to tinymce.selection and tinymce.dom.RangeUtils which expand the selection around the nearest word.

{productname} 6.3 introduced two new API functions that allow a user to select a word from the insertion point location which applies a new expand feature.

> This new `tinymce.selection` API function allows {productname} users and developers to expand the selection range to contain the entire word when the selection is collapsed within the word.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This new `tinymce.selection.expand` API function allows {productname} users and developers to expand the selection range to contain the entire word when the selection is collapsed within the word.
```

To support this new API function, {productname} 6.3 also introduced `tinymce.dom.RangeUtils`, which focuses on a new `expand` method range that expands around the entire word that the user selection was collapsed within by the `tinymce.selection` API function.

> If, in the following example, a user places the insertion point between the first and second `m` in the word, `comment`, then clicks the _Add comment_ toolbar button, or selects _Insert > Add comment_ from the TinyMCE menu, or presses the _Add comment_ keyboard shortcut (eg ⌘+⌥+M) — 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
These new API functions are implemented to improve the selection of whole words in the Comments plugin. If, in the following example, a user places the insertion point between the first and second `m` in the word, `comment`, then clicks the _Add comment_ toolbar button, or selects _Insert > Add comment_ from the TinyMCE menu, or presses the _Add comment_ keyboard shortcut (eg ⌘+⌥+M) — 
```
Missing some relation to the comments plugin and below example, since the example isn't of the use of these APIs, but rather an improvement made using them.

To accompany this, {productname} 6.3 now allows for the creation of a separate `storageKey` property for the pre-provided colors in `color_map_forground` and `color_map_background` respectively. `storageKey` properties can also be set to `color_cols`, the `colorinput` component, and `colorswatch`.

NOTE: If no separate values are set for `color_map_forground` and `color_map_background`, they still default to the shared or previous values as before.

=== A new addView API was added to editor.ui.registry 

The new `addView` API registers a new view container.

This container, which is off (hidden) by default, is attached to the main view.

In this default state, the main editor view is shown and the `addView`-specific view is hidden.

When `addView` is turned on, the main editor view is hidden, and the `addView`-specific view is shown.

Accompanying this new API is a new `ToggleView` command.

The `ToggleView` command can, as its name suggests, toggle view visibility.

As well, the `ToggleView` command can be queried for its current state.

> === New color_default_foreground and color_default_background options to set the initial default color for the forecolor and backcolor toolbar buttons and menu items.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
=== New `color_default_foreground` and `color_default_background` options to set the initial default color for the forecolor and backcolor toolbar buttons and menu items.
```
Missing backticks

> {productname} 6.3 adds a new feature that allows the default color for the `color_default_foreground` and `color_default_background` in the toolbar button menu to be pre-defined.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
{productname} 6.3 adds a new feature that allows the default color for the icons in the foreground color and background color toolbar buttons to be pre-defined.
```
The default colors in the forecolor and backcolor icons can now be defined. Saying "the `color_default_foreground` toolbar button menu default color can now be defined" sounds redundant and doesn't make sense as they are options not toolbar buttons.

A memory leak occurred in Chrome, Edge and Firefox browsers when media content was parsed into the editor using the `tinymce.activeEditor.getContent()` method API.

The memory leak caused an abnormal behavior that increased the memory requirements of the editor until the active tab in the browser crashed.

This memory leak has been reported as https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=1374180[Memory leak with DOMParser parseFromString method] in the Chromium bug tracker.

A fix that prevents {productname} being affected by the leak has been included in {productname} 6.3.

=== Dragging a noneditable element toward the bottom edge would cause the page to scroll up

A regression was found in {productname} 6.2 where dragging an element containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute towards a document’s edge did not cause scrolling.

It was also found that dragging elements containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute toward the bottom edge causes similar behavior. In this instance, however, when the elements containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute was dragged to the bottom of the page the editor would sometimes scroll up.

> This regression has been addressed in {productname} 6.3. Dragging elements containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute towards a document’s edge causes the viewport to scroll as expected. And dragging elements containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute toward the bottom edge of the editor no longer causes the page to scroll up.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This regression has been addressed in {productname} 6.3. Dragging elements containing a `contenteditable=false` attribute towards a document’s edge causes the viewport to scroll as expected. And dragging elements containing a `contenteditable=false` attribute toward the bottom edge of the editor no longer causes the page to scroll up.
```

Reviewer 3: Even though the HTML attribute is case-insensitive, we should be consistent across our docs/demos/examples.

=== Range expanding capabilities behaved inconsistently depending on where the insertion point was placed

When the `ExpandRange.ts:expandRng()` function is given a range, it is expected to select the next word whether the range begins before or after the word. Previously, however, this was discovered to not be the case.

> As a result of the discovery, it was further discovered that the string `ExpandRange.ts:expandRng()` function, that checks the location of the user’s insertion point before and after, was affecting the for-loop in `walkText-implementation`.

Reviewer 6: Don't think this line is relevant as it isn't user-focused.

Author: Removed line as not relevant since it is not user-focused.

Fixes were applied to the `tinymce.activeEditor.selection.expand()` function which is responsible for directly affecting the white space next to a word that accompanies a space-separated instance. 

In {productname} 6.3, the `ExpandRange.ts:expandRng()` function now behaves as intended with any element such as text, special character, styles or elements with `contenteditable="false”` attributes. Regardless of where the insertion point is placed, the function, when given a range, now selects the word as expected.

=== Compilation errors were thrown when using TypeScript 4.8

> {productname} 6.3 includes updates to the latest `rollup-plugin-dts` version to pull in a fix that was generating invalid generics. The update also allowed for a transition from typescript 4.7.4 to typescript 4.8.3, which, further, fixed compilation errors that were occurring.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{productname} 6.3 includes updates to the latest `rollup-plugin-dts` version to pull in a fix that was generating invalid generics. The update also allowed for a transition from Typescript 4.7.4 to Typescript 4.8.3, which, further, fixed compilation errors that were occurring.
```

[source,text]
----
This is a **bold** step.
----

will be automatically turned into

[source,html]
----
<p>This is a <strong>bold</strong> step.
----

and will be displayed accordingly.

In providing this support, {productname} uses xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[text_patterns].

Previously, to check if something matched a supported pattern, {productname} first searched for the end pattern (ie, in the example above, the trailing `+**+`), then searched for the starting pattern (ie, in the example above, the leading `+**+`, then checked the offset to establish if the leading pattern was, in fact, a leading pattern.

However, the previous logic for determining offset could, in some circumstances, cause inline formatting to be either applied when not expected and not applied when expected.

In {productname} 6.3 the mechanism now checks the text patterns only and applies the closest match based on said text patterns.

=== The context toolbar prevented the user from placing the cursor at the edges of the editor.

When scrolled past the top row of a table, the table _context toolbar_ overlapped any rows at the top of the editor to display below the toolbar.

> In {productname} 5.x, the _context toolbar_ switched from being at the top of the editor, to the bottom of the table or editor when a user attempted to select cells close to the top row of the table. And vice versa when the _context toolbar_ was docked to the bottom of the editor.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In {productname} 5.x, the _context toolbar_ switches from being at the top of the editor, to the bottom of the table or editor when a user attempted to select cells close to the top row of the table. And vice versa when the _context toolbar_ was docked to the bottom of the editor.
```
This is dynamic, not a final change made in 5.x as the tense suggests.

As of the {productname} 6.3 release, the scroll function now repositions the insertion point to the last known undo or redo location.

=== A newline could not be inserted after an inline element with a contenteditable="false" attribute was created

In previous versions of {productname}, a newline could not be inserted when the selection was restored from a bookmark positioning after adding an inline element with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute.

This was most commonly seen by pressing the *Return* (or *Enter*) key not moving the insertion point to a new line after a merge tag was created in the editor.

For {productname} 6.3, a fix was applied to the core `SelectionOverrides` settings to ensure the user selection restores from the bookmark positioning before and after an inline element with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute is created.

Hitting the *Return* (or *Enter*) after creating a merge tag now moves the insertion point to a new line, as expected.

=== Inline mode did not respect the `content_css_cors` option

> In previous versions of {productname}, the `tinymce.styleSheetLoader` global was not configured by the `content_css_cors` option, when specified.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, the `tinymce.dom.styleSheetLoader` global was not configured by the `content_css_cors` option, when specified.
```

> Consequently, stylesheets loaded by {productname} onto the outer document page did not have the `crossOrigin="anonymous"` attribute. This particularly affected {productname} instances running in inline mode, because the `tinymce.styleSheetLoader` global is used to load stylesheets used by inline editors. (Stylesheets for {productname} editors running in iframe mode are specific to the editor.)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Consequently, stylesheets loaded by {productname} onto the outer document page did not have the `crossorigin="anonymous"` attribute. This particularly affected {productname} instances running in inline mode, because the `tinymce.styleSheetLoader` global is used to load stylesheets used by inline editors. (Stylesheets for {productname} editors running in iframe mode are specific to the editor.)
```

> In previous versions of {productname}, the `tinymce.styleSheetLoader` global was not configured by the `content_css_cors` option, when specified.
> 
> Consequently, stylesheets loaded by {productname} onto the outer document page did not have the `crossorigin="anonymous"` attribute. This particularly affected {productname} instances running in inline mode, because the `tinymce.styleSheetLoader` global is used to load stylesheets used by inline editors. (Stylesheets for {productname} editors running in iframe mode are specific to the editor.)
> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, the `tinymce.dom.styleSheetLoader` global was not configured by the `content_css_cors` option, when specified.

Consequently, stylesheets loaded by {productname} onto the outer document page did not have the `crossorigin="anonymous"` attribute. This particularly affected {productname} instances running in inline mode, because the `tinymce.dom.styleSheetLoader` global is used to load stylesheets used by inline editors. (Stylesheets for {productname} editors running in iframe mode are specific to the editor.)
```

> Without the `crossOrigins="anonymous"` attribute being set, no external stylesheets were loaded. And inline editors with the `pageembed` plugin loaded and the `tiny_pageembed_inline_styles` option set to `true` would, as a result, return an error when attempting to insert any iframes through the dialog.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Without the `crossorigin="anonymous"` attribute being set, no external stylesheets were loaded. And inline editors with the `pageembed` plugin loaded and the `tiny_pageembed_inline_styles` option set to `true` would, as a result, return an error when attempting to insert any iframes through the dialog.
```

=== The insertion point moved to the previous line when a text pattern executed a `mceInsertContent` command on Firefox

In previous versions of {productname}, when running on Firefox and after pressing Enter or Return to execute an `mceInsertContent` command (to, for example, add a merge tag to a {productname} document), xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[text_patterns] moved the insertion point to the previous line.

This error has been corrected in {productname} 6.3. When running {productname} 6.3 on Firefox and creating a merge tag using `mceInsertContent`, pressing Enter or Return to generate the desired merge tag moves the insertion point to the end of said newly-created merge tag, as expected.

[[security-fixes]]
== Security fixes

{productname} 6.3 includes a fix for the following security issue:

=== A cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability was found in TinyMCE alerts

It was discovered that HTML being inserted into the DOM for presentation in {productname} alert and confirm dialogs was not being sanitized.

> As a consequence, plugins that used the alert or confirm dialogs could be used to insert aribtrary JavaScript that would execute when an alert presented in the TinyMCE UI for the current user.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
As a consequence, plugins that used the alert or confirm dialogs could be used to insert arbitrary JavaScript that would execute when an alert presented in the TinyMCE UI for the current user.
```

Typo

As of {productname} 6.3, HTML being provided to the DOM for presentation in {productname} alert and confirm dialogs is now sanitized before being added.

This sanitizing closes the XSS vulnerability.

[[known-issues]]
== Known issues

This section describes issues that users of {productname} 6.3 may encounter and possible workarounds for these issues.

There are several known issues in {productname} 6.3.

=== The More button can disappear from the {productname} toolbar when exiting the inline code editor

When the More button in the {productname} toolbar is open (ie, is set to display all of a multi-line toolbar), opening and closing the xref:advcode.adoc[Advanced Code Editor] in inline mode can cause the More button to disappear.

Specifically, when {productname} 6.3 is running `advcode_inline: true` and `toolbar_mode: sliding` specifically the More button disappears after clicking on the _Cancel_ button in the xref:advcode.adoc[Advanced Code Editor] viewport.

This only occurs when the toolbar is forced into a viewport small enough to render the _More_ toolbar button inside the editor. As in the example below, which sets the viewport width to be less than the toolbar width.

> [source,js]
> ----
> tinymce.init({
>   selector: "textarea", // change this value according to your HTML
>     width: 400,
>     plugins: "advcode",
>     advcode_inline: true,
>     toolbar_mode: 'sliding',
>     toolbar: " undo redo | styles | bold italic underline strikethrough | code "
> });
> ----

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea', // change this value according to your HTML
  width: 400,
  plugins: 'advcode',
  advcode_inline: true,
  toolbar_mode: 'sliding',
  toolbar: 'undo redo | styles | bold italic underline strikethrough | code'
});
----
```

=== Checkmark over the current color is not displayed when ‘Text color’ or ‘Background color’ is accessed from the {productname} menu

The *Text color* and *Background color* commands set the color of the selected text and the background behind the selected text respectively.

Depending on the {productname} configuration, these commands can be accessed from the *Format* menu or from the {productname} toolbar, or both.

And, when selected text or the background behind selected text is set to one of the colors available from the swatch presented by both commands, a checkbox appears over that color when these commands are selected and the swatch is opened.

As of {productname} 6.3, however, this checkmark does not appear if the *Text color* or *Background color* commands are opened via the *Format* menu. The checkmark does, however, appear when the equivalent toolbar button menus are opened.

This presentation issue does not affect functionality. Selecting a new *Text color* or *Background color*, either via the *Format* menu or the toolbar, changes the selected text color or the selected text’s background color, as expected.

> A workaround is to display the {productname} toolbar with the *Text color* and *Background color* options and access these commands from the toolbar.

Reviewer 6: Is this saying that the toolbar is displayed from the color options, which are accessed as commands from the toolbar? Because that doesn't make any sense.

```suggestion
A workaround is to specify the *Text color* and *Background color* using the color swatch UI provided by the `forecolor` and `backcolor` toolbar buttons.
```
This might make more sense, saying that the color should be specified using the toolbar buttons.

:keywords: releasenotes, new, changes, bugfixes
:page-toclevels: 1

include::partial$misc/admon-releasenotes-for-stable.adoc[]

[[overview]]
== Overview

{productname} 6.3 was released for {enterpriseversion} and {cloudname} on Wednesday, December 7^th^, 2022. It includes {productname} 6.3, additional changes to Premium plugins, and several new Premium plugins. These release notes provide an overview of the changes for {productname} 6.3:

* xref:new-premium-plugins[New Premium plugins]
* xref:accompanying-premium-plugin-changes[Accompanying Premium Plugin changes]
* xref:accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes[Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes]
* xref:improvements[Improvements]
* xref:additions[Additions]
* xref:changes[Changes]
* xref:bug-fixes[Bug fixes]
* xref:security-fixes[Security fixes]
* xref:known-issues[Known issues]

[[new-premium-plugins]]
== New Premium plugins

=== Inline CSS 1.0.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes the new **Inline CSS** premium plugin.

The Inline CSS plugin allows the user to <notes here>.

For information on the **Inline CSS** plugin, see: xref:inline-css.adoc[Inline CSS].

> === Advanced Typography 1.0.0

Reviewer 8: Looks like we need to check and update the version number once RC is out.

The {productname} 6.3 release includes the new **Advanced typography** premium plugin.

> The **Advanced Typography** plugin, depending on its setting, can automatically or interactively replace common typewriter-style characters with their professional typesetter’s equivalents.

Reviewer 9: I don't think automatic replacement is a current feature of `typography`

Reviewer 10: @Skylite73
@brian-forte 
Suggested changes:

The **Advanced Typography** plugin, depending on its setting, can replace common typewriter-style characters with their professional typesetter equivalents after the `Advanced Typography` button is pressed.   This action will modify either the entire content for the {productname} document or the specific text selection highlighted by the user.

The American English typesetting norm is to use opening and closing double-quote marks to denote direct quotation: *“* and *”*.

And one Spanish typesetting norm is to use guillemets, also known as comillas angulares, comillas franceses or chevrons, to denote direct quotation: *«* and *»*.

So, for example, if a {productname} document included a string thus:

[source,text]
----
"They went that way," he said, pointing.
----

Selecting _English (US)_ from the *Advanced Typography* toolbar icon’s pop-up menu transforms the text, as expected, into

[source,text]
----
“They went that way,” he said, pointing.
----

Following this action by, then, selecting _Spanish_ from the *Advanced Typography* toolbar icon’s pop-up menu, however, can result in the following incomplete typesetting change:

[source,text]
----
«They went that way, ” he said, pointing.
----

As of this release the only workaround is to not change *Advanced Typography* target languages.

==== The Advanced Typography plugin erroneously honors the current SpellChecker Pro language selection

There is currently a conflict between the selected **SpellChecker Pro** language and the selected **Advanced Typography** language.

> When a **SpellChecker Pro** language is specified, **SpellChecker Pro** adds a `lang=<language-value>` attribute to the `<body>` tag and the **Advanced Typography** plugin erroneously honours this attribute when applying Typography rules.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
When a **SpellChecker Pro** language is specified, **SpellChecker Pro** adds a `lang=<language-value>` attribute to the `<body>` tag and the **Advanced Typography** plugin erroneously honors this attribute when applying Typography rules.
```

With this update, the comments button, menu-item, comment sidebar and shortcut keys are now disabled when the editor contains no content.

==== The selection now expands to encompass the word containing the insertion point when a comment is added

{productname} 6.3 adds xref:additions[two new API functions] — `tinymce.selection` and `tinymce.dom.RangeUtils`.

With these two functions available, if there is no selected text when a new comment is added, {productname} automatically extends the selection to encompass the word containing the insertion point and links the newly added comment to this automatically selected word.

For information on the **Comments** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-comments.adoc[Introduction to Tiny Comments].

=== Merge tags 1.1.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Merge tags** premium plugin.

**Merge Tags** 1.1.0 includes one addition, one fix, and one change:

==== New mceMergeTag command to wrap selected content in a merge tag

A new command, `mceMergeTag`, is now available as a Text Patterns option.

> When this command is added as a `text_pattern`, manually typing a complete Merge Tag, including the prefix and suffix strings, into a {productname} document will result in the entered string being turned into an active merge tag when the string is completed by having a word boundary character added immediately after it.

Reviewer: This seems overloaded complex sentence. Consider separating it into several simple parts. For example:

> Previously only a predefined list of merge tags could be used. With the new `mceMergeTag` command any selected content can be converted into a merge tag. Also configuring the inline text pattern with this command allows entering merge tags during the manual typing. Sequentially typing the prefix, some content, suffix, and word boundary character immediately wraps that content in a complete merge tag.

Author: To quote my commit message:

> @vpyshnenko’s re-write (with some minor edits) is now the introductory material describing the new `mceMergeTag` command.

In the following example, the Merge Tag prefix and suffix are the default, `{{` and `}}`

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: "textarea", // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: "mergetags",
  text_patterns: [
    { start: '{{', end: '}}', cmd: 'mceMergeTag' }
  ],
  mergetags_list: [
  {
    value: 'merge.tag',
    title: 'A merge tag.'
  },
	],
  toolbar: "mergetags",
});
----

In this example, typing `{{string}}` followed by a word boundary character (such as a space, full-stop, question mark or comma) will result in the _string_ being turned into an active merge tag.

==== The autocompleter was triggered without being preceded by a merge tag prefix.

Previously, the Merge Tags autocompleter would remain after being triggered, in the case where a merge tag was inserted by the `mceMergeTag` command and not the autocompleter. 

> In {productname} 6.3, the autocompleter now closes after the `mceMergeTag` command is executed.

Author: To, again, quote my commit message:

> Removed section: The autocompleter was triggered without being preceded by a merge tag prefix.
> 
> This bug was found and fixed in development. It was never encountered in the wild so does not need to be documented in the release notes.

[source,html]
----
<p>
  <span class="mce-annotation tox-comment" 
  	data-mce-annotation-uid="mce-conversation_58585987121669010253247" 
	data-mce-annotation="tinycomments">Comment</span>
</p>
----

— {productname} 6.3 will automatically expand the selection to include the whole word, ‘Comment’.

=== New `color_map_foreground` and `color_map_background` options store custom colors selected using the Text color and Background color menus.

{productname} 6.3 has two new and separate color palettes — `color_map_foreground` and `color_map_background` — for custom Text colors and custom Background colors.

When custom colors are selected from the Text color or Background color menus, these colors are now stored in these separate color palettes, `color_map_foreground` and `color_map_background`, respectively.

When chosen, these custom colors are still added to the Text color and Background color menus. But they are now stored separately from the default color sets used by both menus.

> NOTE: When a user adds a custom color to the `color_map_background` pallete, the editor does not replicate the new color in the `color_map_foreground` pallete.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
NOTE: When a user adds a custom color to the `color_map_background` palette, the editor does not replicate the new color in the `color_map_foreground` palette.
```

=== Added optional storageKey property to `colorinput` component

{productname} 6.3 introduced two new color palettes for `color_map_background` and `color_map_foreground`.

> This addition introduced changes to the `colorcache`: it is no longer considered a singleton. The `colorcache` can now be accessed with the help of a custom ID, which can now create custom `color_map` colors, selected by the user to be assigned to either the `backcolor` or `forecolor` pallets separately.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
This addition introduced changes to the `colorcache`: it is no longer considered a singleton. The `colorcache` can now be accessed with the help of a custom ID, which can now create custom `color_map` colors, selected by the user to be assigned to either the `backcolor` or `forecolor` palettes separately.
```

> To accompany this, {productname} 6.3 now allows for the creation of a separate `storageKey` property for the pre-provided colors in `color_map_forground` and `color_map_background` respectively. `storageKey` properties can also be set fo `color_cols`, the `colorinput` component, and `colorswatch`.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
To accompany this, {productname} 6.3 now allows for the creation of a separate `storageKey` property for the pre-provided colors in `color_map_forground` and `color_map_background` respectively. `storageKey` properties can also be set to `color_cols`, the `colorinput` component, and `colorswatch`.
```

NOTE: If no separate values are set for `color_map_forground` and `color_map_background`, they still default to the shared or previous values as before.

=== A new addView API was added to editor.ui.registry 

The new `addView` API registers a new view container.

This container, which is off (hidden) by default, is attached to the main view.

In this default state, the main editor view is shown and the `addView`-specific view is hidden.

When `addView` is turned on, the main editor view is hidden, and the `addView`-specific view is shown.

Accompanying this new API is a new `ToggleView` command.

The `ToggleView` command can, as its name suggest, toggle view visibility.

> As well, the `ToggleView` command can be queried for it current state.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
As well, the `ToggleView` command can be queried for its current state.
```

The provides more flexibility with the `getContent` and `setContent` features.

New tests have been added to the `setContent` feature in {productname} 6.3 that now check if content manipulation in `BeforeSetContent` callback is possible so it can pass the custom data object to the `getContent` feature, allowing it to set both the content and action events.

[[bug-fixes]]
== Bug fixes

{productname} 6.3 also includes the following bug fixes:

=== Parsing media content would cause a memory leak, which for example occurred when using the getContent API.

A memory leak occurred in Chrome, Edge and Firefox browsers when media content was parsed into the editor using the `tinymce.activeEditor.getContent()` method API.

The memory leak caused an abnormal behavior that increased the memory requirements of the editor until the active tab in the browser crashed.

This memory leak has been reported as https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=1374180[Memory leak with DOMParser parseFromString method] in the Chromium bug tracker.

> A fix that prevents {productname} being effected by the leak has been included in {productname} 6.3.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
A fix that prevents {productname} being affected by the leak has been included in {productname} 6.3.
```

=== Dragging a noneditable element toward the bottom edge would cause the page to scroll up.

A regression was found in {productname} 6.2 where dragging an element containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute towards a document’s edge did not cause scrolling.

> It was also found that dragging elements containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute toward the bottom edge causes similar behaviour. In this instance, however, when the elements containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute was dragged to the bottom of the page the editor would sometimes scroll up.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
It was also found that dragging elements containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute toward the bottom edge causes similar behavior. In this instance, however, when the elements containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute was dragged to the bottom of the page the editor would sometimes scroll up.
```

This regression has been addressed in {productname} 6.3. Dragging elements containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute towards a document’s edge causes the viewport to scroll as expected. And dragging elements containing a `contentEditable=false` attribute toward the bottom edge of the editor no longer causes the page to scroll up.

=== Range expanding capabilities behaved inconsistently depending on where the insertion point was placed.

> When the `ExpandRange.ts:expandRng()` function is given a range, it is expected to select a the next word whether the range begins before or after the word. Previously, however, this was discovered to not be the case.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
When the `ExpandRange.ts:expandRng()` function is given a range, it is expected to select the next word whether the range begins before or after the word. Previously, however, this was discovered to not be the case.
```

As of the {productname} 6.3 release, the scroll function now repositions the insertion point to the last known undo or redo location.

=== A newline could not be inserted after an inline element with a contenteditable="false" attribute was created.

In previous versions of {productname}, a newline could not be inserted when the selection was restored from a ‘bookmark’ positioning after adding an inline element with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute.

This was most commonly seen by pressing the *Return* (or *Enter*) key not moving the insertion point to a new line after a merge tag was created in the editor.

For {productname} 6.3, a fix was applied to the core `SelectionOverrides` settings to ensure the user selection restores from the ‘bookmark’ positioning before and after an inline element with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute is created.

Hitting the *Return* (or *Enter*) after creating a merge tag now moves the insertion point to a new line, as expected.

=== Inline mode did not respect the `content_css_cors` option.

In previous versions of {productname}, the `tinymce.styleSheetLoader` global was not configured by the `content_css_cors` option, when specified.

> Consequently, stylesheets loaded by {productname} onto the outer document page did not have the `crossOrigin="anonymous"` attribute. This particularly effected {productname} instances running in inline mode, because the `tinymce.styleSheetLoader` global is used to load stylesheets used by inline editors. (Stylesheets for {productname} editors running in iframe mode are specific to the editor.)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
Consequently, stylesheets loaded by {productname} onto the outer document page did not have the `crossOrigin="anonymous"` attribute. This particularly affected {productname} instances running in inline mode, because the `tinymce.styleSheetLoader` global is used to load stylesheets used by inline editors. (Stylesheets for {productname} editors running in iframe mode are specific to the editor.)
```

Without the `crossOrigins="anonymous"` attribute being set, no external stylesheets were loaded. And inline editors with the `pageembed` plugin loaded and the `tiny_pageembed_inline_styles` option set to `true` would, as a result, return an error when attempting to insert any iframse through the dialog.

As of {productname} 6.3, the `content_css_cors` option now configures the `tinymce.dom.styleSheetLoader` global when specified. This allows the `crossOrigin="anonymous"` attribute to be added to all stylesheets loaded by the editor — including editors running in inline mode — when the attribute is set to true.

=== The insertion point moved to the previous line when a text pattern executed a `mceInsertContent` command on Firefox

In previous versions of {productname}, when running on Firefox and after pressing Enter or Return to execute an `mceInsertContent` command (to, for example, add a merge tag to a {productname} document), xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[text_patterns] moved the insertion point to the previous line.

> This error has been corrected in {productname} 6.3. When running {productname} 6.3 on Firefox and creating a merge tag using `mceInsertContent`, pressing the Enter or Return to generate the desired merge tag moves the insertion point to the end of said newly-created merge tag, as expected.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
This error has been corrected in {productname} 6.3. When running {productname} 6.3 on Firefox and creating a merge tag using `mceInsertContent`, pressing Enter or Return to generate the desired merge tag moves the insertion point to the end of said newly-created merge tag, as expected.
```

[[security-fixes]]
== Security fixes

{productname} 6.3 includes fixes for the following security issues:

=== HTML in messages for the `WindowManager.alert` and `WindowManager.confirm` APIs was not properly sanitized.

> Some calls to `DomFactory.fromHtml` were escaping the text being substituted into the HTML `string`, resulting in an isolated alert being displayed within the {productname} editor viewport. 

Reviewer 11: Not sure it makes sense to mention internal apis and code here. So maybe strike this from the notes. The important part here is to describe that the alert/confirm apis is now sanatized though dompurify.

Author: As per this [commit](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/commit/26c4e66d187d8a08e2a5741ed37947162cc07ef1) and its message:

> Edits to ‘HTML in messages for the `WindowManager.alert` and `WindowManager.confirm` APIs was not properly sanitized’ section as per @spocke’s notes.

> {productname} 6.3 introduced `dompurify` into the core dependencies to reduce the risks associated with XSS attacks.

Reviewer 11: 5.10.7 adds dompurify. For the 6.x it's been in there since the feist version. So maybe just strike this from the notes here.

Author: As per this [commit](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/commit/26c4e66d187d8a08e2a5741ed37947162cc07ef1) and its message:

> Edits to ‘HTML in messages for the `WindowManager.alert` and `WindowManager.confirm` APIs was not properly sanitized’ section as per @spocke’s notes.

> In messages for the `WindowManager.alert` and `WindowManager.confirm` APIs now sanitise properly.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
In messages for the `WindowManager.alert` and `WindowManager.confirm` APIs now sanitize properly.
```

});
----

A workaround does exist to resolve this issue: if the More button disappears, re-sizing the editor viewport forces it to re-display. Switching to Full Screen mode and back counts as re-sizing for this workaround’s purposes.

=== In Safari 16.1, the ‘Click for more info’ button in Accessibility Checker dialogs is not outlined when made active

*Accessibility Checker* dialogs for accessibility Errors and Warnings include a _Click for more info_ button: a coloured square containing a circled question mark.

When this button is navigated to using keyboard navigation, the button is highlighted and a blue outline appears around the highlighted button.

When Safari 16.1 is the host browser for a {productname} instance, the _Click for more info_ button highlights, but the blue outline does not present when this button is navigated to using keyboard navigation.

This is a presentation issue only. The _Click for more info_ button still works as a button in Safari 16.1, responding as expected when it is clicked or pressed, or when the Return key is pressed after navigating to the button using the Tab key.

There is, as of this release, no specific workaround.

> NOTE: if the _Click for more info_ button is navigated to using the Tab key, and then the Return key is pressed to activate the button and load the more information page, the blue outline does appear in Safari 16.1 after the Return key is pressed.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
NOTE: If the _Click for more info_ button is navigated to using the Tab key, and then the Return key is pressed to activate the button and load the more information page, the blue outline does appear in Safari 16.1 after the Return key is pressed.
```

As of {productname} 6.3, however, this checkmark does not appear if the *Text color* or *Background color* commands are opened via the *Format* menu. The checkmark does, however, appear when the equivalent toolbar button menus are opened.

This presentation issue does not affect functionality. Selecting a new *Text color* or *Background color*, either via the *Format* menu or the toolbar, changes the selected text color or the selected text’s background color, as expected.

A workaround is to display the {productname} toolbar with the *Text color* and *Background color* options and access these commands from the toolbar. The checkmark appears in the 

=== Checkmark over the current Background color is not displayed when inline formatting is applied in a certain order

If text in a {productname} document is formatted in the following order, the checkmark over the currently active background color does not display in the Background color swatch menu:

. Apply inline formatting, such as *Bold* or _Italic_.
. Apply a Text color
. Apply a Background color

> This presentation issue does not affect functionality. Selecting an new *Background color*, either via the *Format* menu or the toolbar, changes the selected text’s background color, as expected.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
This presentation issue does not affect functionality. Selecting a new *Background color*, either via the *Format* menu or the toolbar, changes the selected text’s background color, as expected.
```

A workaround is to apply inline formatting after applying the Text and Background color. When the inline formatting is applied after the Text and Background colors are applied, the presentation error does not occur.

> NOTE: this checkmark presentation issue occurs in conjunction with the similar checkmark presentation issue documented above. When this presentation issue occurs, the checkmark does denote the current background color in either the *Background color* menu or toolbar item.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
NOTE: This checkmark presentation issue occurs in conjunction with the similar checkmark presentation issue documented above. When this presentation issue occurs, the checkmark does denote the current background color in either the *Background color* menu or toolbar item.
```

In some circumstances, switching the target language in this fashion does not result in typesetting changes as expected. This is most visibly apparent with quotation marks.

The British English typesetting norm is to use opening and closing single-quote marks to denote direct quotation: *‘* and *’*.

The American English typesetting norm is to use opening and closing double-quote marks to denote direct quotation: *“* and *”*.

And one Spanish typesetting norm is to use guillemets, also known as comillas angulares, comillas franceses or chevrons, to denote direct quotation: *«* and *»*.

So, for example, if a {productname} document included a string thus:

[source,text]
----
"They went that way," he said, pointing.
----

Selecting _English (US)_ from the *Advanced Typography* toolbar icon’s pop-up menu transforms the text, as expected, into

[source,text]
----
“They went that way,” he said, pointing.
----

Following this action by, then, selecting _Spanish_ from the *Advanced Typography* toolbar icon’s pop-up menu, however, can result in the following incomplete typesetting change:

[source,text]
----
«They went that way, ” he said, pointing.
----

> As of this release the only workaround is to not change *Advanced Typography* target languages.

Author: Yes.

I don’t know the underlying mechanics, but the problem documented here is consequent to

1. running the rules for one language over a document.
2. changing the currently-in-use rules language.
3. running the new rules over the document.
4. and so on.

Opening a document that is, by default, set to use the en-US typography rules and changing that setting before running any rules set over the document does not cause the presented problem.

And, as I type this, I believe I need to edit the above text to make my point above clear.

> As of this release the only workaround is to not change *Advanced Typography* target languages.

Author: Have now done the edit.

Thanks for the nudge.

= TinyMCE 6.3
:navtitle: TinyMCE 6.3
:description: Release notes for TinyMCE 6.3
:keywords: releasenotes, new, changes, bugfixes
:page-toclevels: 1

include::partial$misc/admon-releasenotes-for-stable.adoc[]

[[overview]]
== Overview

{productname} 6.3 was released for {enterpriseversion} and {cloudname} on Wednesday, December 7^th^, 2022. It includes {productname} 6.3, additional changes to Premium plugins, and several new Premium plugins. These release notes provide an overview of the changes for {productname} 6.3:

* xref:new-premium-plugins[New Premium plugins]
* xref:accompanying-premium-plugin-changes[Accompanying Premium Plugin changes]
* xref:accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes[Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes]
* xref:improvements[Improvements]
* xref:additions[Additions]
* xref:changes[Changes]
* xref:bug-fixes[Bug fixes]
* xref:security-fixes[Security fixes]
* xref:known-issues[Known issues]

[[new-premium-plugins]]
== New Premium plugins

=== Inline CSS 1.0.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes the new **Inline CSS** premium plugin.

> The Inline CSS plugin allows the user to <notes here>.

Author: Place holder replaced with actual introductory notes.

For information on the **Inline CSS** plugin, see: xref:inline-css.adoc[Inline CSS].

=== Advanced Typography 1.0.1

The {productname} 6.3 release includes the new **Advanced typography** premium plugin.

The **Advanced Typography** plugin, depending on its setting, can replace common typewriter-style characters with their professional typesetter equivalents after the _Advanced Typography_ button is pressed. This action will modify either the entire content for the {productname} document or the specific text selection highlighted by the user.

For information on the **Advanced typography** plugin, see: xref:advanced-typography.adoc[Advanced typography].

> There is one known issue in **Advanced Typography** 1.0.1:

Reviewer 8: @ephox-mogran This is an edge case. Above content has been verified by ( Kate Sutormina, Typography PO). I guess it's hard to mention issues in detail. I think we can leave it as is.

@brian-forte FYI

This dialog also presents the alternative text in an editable field, for immediate repair.

==== Replaces the single warning icon presented in dialogs with icons specific to each alert level;

Previously, all **Accessibility Checker** warning dialogs presented with a triangle warning icon, regardless of whether the alert was informational, a warning, or an error.

With this update, **Accessibility Checker** shows a level-specific icon with each alert.

==== The discoverability of the question mark button in warning dialogs was improved

Many **Accessibility Checker** dialogs include a question mark icon. This icon is a link to further information about the discovered issue.

This update includes changes to the presentation of this icon to make discoverability as a clickable button` more apparent.

==== The legibility of warning dialogs was improved

In concert with the changes noted above to the question mark icon in **Accessibility Checker** dialogs, legibility improvements were made to the presentation and typography of these dialogs.

The icon’s text was centered and the *Issue*, *Warning*, or *Error* sub-heading’s font size was reduced.

> Additionally borders were removed from the exterior of the description field and contrast colors were adjusted to match the background color of the icons added for this release.

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, borders were removed from the exterior of the description field and contrast colors were adjusted to match the background color of the icons added for this release.
```

> ==== Added correct icons in dialog alert panel for each severity level

Author: I cannot find the source tickets now (which is both a frustration and a problem) but I believe these were two tickets, hence the two entries.

Nonetheless, I think combining these two is sensible, and have done so.

In {productname} 6.3, improvements for the accessibility checker were added to provide additional support for users when trying to identify different alerts such as _info_, _warning_ or _error_ icons.

In previous versions of {productname} the accessibility checker used the same triangle warning icon for all alerts when displayed. In {productname} 6.3, each alert type now displays a unique icon.

* Warning alerts now display as an exclamation mark nested inside a yellow circle.
* Error alerts now display as an exclamation mark nested inside a red triangle.
* Success alerts now display as a green tick.

For information on the **Accessibility Checker** plugin, see: xref:a11ychecker.adoc[Accessibility Checker].

=== Advanced Code Editor 3.1.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Advanced Code Editor** premium plugin.

**Advanced Code Editor** 3.1.0 includes the following improvement.

==== new option to display the Advanced Code Editor inline instead of in a dialog

> In {productname} 6.3, the Advanced Code Editor plugin includes a new option, `advcode_inline`, that allows users to open the Advanced Code Editor within TinyMCE’s existing editor space instead of been displayed in a seperate dialog box.

Author: ```suggestion
In {productname} 6.3, the Advanced Code Editor plugin includes a new option, `advcode_inline`, that allows users to open the Advanced Code Editor within TinyMCE’s existing editor space instead of being displayed in a separate dialog box.
```

> Using advcode inside TinyMCE means users on mobile devices or with otherwise narrow screens do not require a ToggleView button, as advcode forces the editor to open within the existing editor space in inline mode.

Author: Sentence removed from here (and from the other PR).

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: "textarea", // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: "advcode",
  advcode_inline: true, // To use this option, set this value to "true".
  toolbar: "code",
});
----

=== Checklist 2.0.2

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Checklist** premium plugin.

**Checklist** 2.0.2 includes one fix:

==== Checklist toggling did not preserve selection when used on an existing list.

In previous {productname} versions, when selecting content over either an ordered or unordered list, then switching the list to a checklist, the user’s content selection was not preserved.

In {productname} 6.3, the user selection is now preserved when toggling a list to a checklist.

For information on the **Checklist** plugin, see xref:checklist.adoc[Checklist].

=== Comments 3.2.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Comments** premium plugin.

**Comments** 3.2.0 includes one fix and one change:

==== A comment could be inserted when in an empty editor or block

In previous {productname} versions a bug existed that allowed comments to be placed into an empty editor or block.

> With this update, the comments button, menu-item, comment sidebar and shortcut keys are now disabled when the editor contains no content.

Author: Speaking of terms-of-art, I wonder if **selection** is being used as such here.

Because this very document contains a sub-section — _The selection now expands to encompass the word containing the insertion point when a comment is added_ — which I read as meaning the comment button, meni-item, sidebar, and shortcut keys can be active when there is nothing selected in the editor.

And the change above is about no longer being able to add a comment when the editor contains nothing a user can select.

==== The selection now expands to encompass the word containing the insertion point when a comment is added

{productname} 6.3 adds xref:additions[two new API functions] — `tinymce.selection` and `tinymce.dom.RangeUtils`.

With these two functions available, if there is no selected text when a new comment is added, {productname} automatically extends the selection to encompass the word containing the insertion point and links the newly added comment to this automatically selected word.

For information on the **Comments** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-comments.adoc[Introduction to Tiny Comments].

=== Merge tags 1.1.0

> The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Merge tags** premium plugin.

Author: Consistently capitalised [M|m]erge [T|t]ags, depending on whether the phrase denoted the plugin (which Merge Tags), an example object (which merge tags), or an example object that happens to also be the start of a sentence (which Merge tags).

**Merge Tags** 1.1.0 includes one addition, one fix, and one change:

==== New mceMergeTag command to wrap selected content in a merge tag

A new command, `mceMergeTag`, is now available as a Text Patterns option.

Previously only a predefined list of merge tags could be used. When the new `mceMergeTag` command is added to `text_patterns`, any text selection content can be converted into a merge tag.

As well, configuring the inline text_pattern with this command allows merge tags to be entered by manual typing.

Type the prefix, some content, the suffix, and then a word boundary character, and the `mceMergeTag` command will immediately wrap that content in a complete merge tag.

In the following example, the Merge Tag prefix and suffix are the default, `{{` and `}}`

[source,js]
----

> tinymce.init({
>   selector: "textarea", // change this value according to your HTML
>   plugins: "mergetags",
>   text_patterns: [
>     { start: '{{', end: '}}', cmd: 'mceMergeTag' }
>   ],
>   mergetags_list: [
>     {
>       value: 'merge.tag',
>       title: 'A merge tag.'
>     },
>   ],
>   toolbar: "mergetags",
> });
> ----

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea', // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'mergetags',
  text_patterns: [
    { start: '{{', end: '}}', cmd: 'mceMergeTag' }
  ],
  mergetags_list: [
    {
      value: 'merge.tag',
      title: 'A merge tag.'
    },
  ],
  toolbar: 'mergetags',
});
----
```

In this example, typing `{{string}}` followed by a word boundary character (such as a space, full-stop, question mark or comma) will result in the _string_ being turned into an active merge tag.

==== Merge tags cannot exceed 255 characters in length

> In {productname} 6.3 a new character limit range of 0-255 was introduced.

Author: Indeed. Edited the above to not be a range, in line with the approach taken in the Accessibility Checker section.

With this change, all merge tags are now subject to this limit including those predefined in the `mergetags_list` option.

In {productname} 6.3, to support this feature, the editor will check all merge tag lengths to ensure they do not exceed 255 characters. 

In the event the merge tag length exceeds this, the item will not be accepted by the editor.

NOTE: Some non-ASCII characters or Unicode codepoints count as more than one character.

For information on the **Merge tags** plugin, see: xref:mergetags.adoc[Merge Tags].

=== Spellchecker Pro 3.1.1

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Spellchecker Pro** premium plugin.

**Spellchecker Pro** 3.1.1 includes one fix:

==== Spellchecker Pro could search outside of the {productname} editor for a language match.

For spelling, a word’s language was identified by finding the nearest `lang` attribute anywhere in an ancestor HTML element to the word (ie, any elements that contain the word). 

> When {productname} was running in Inline mode, that included HTML ancestors that were provided by the host Browser, which are outside the {productname} editor instance.

Reviewer 2: I think "outside page" is probably a bit more accurate than "host browser"

Author: More reflection, and, consequently, another edit.

> If a `lang` attribute existed anywhere in this ancestry that `lang` attribute value overrode all attempts by the user to set the spell checking language for the document.

Reviewer 2: I think we need some punctuation here between ancestry and that.

Author: On reflection, a small but significant edit, affecting both this sentence and the sentence before, happened.

As of {productname} 6.3, the `lang` attribute inherits the default settings for the {productname} editor body. As a consequence, the editor no longer searches elements external to the editor body when searching for `lang` attributes.

For information on the **Spellchecker Pro** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-spellchecker.adoc[Spellchecker Pro].

=== Spelling Autocorrect 1.0.1

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Spelling Autocorrect** premium plugin.

**Spelling Autocorrect** 1.0.1 includes one fix:

==== Fixed format changes at the start of sentences when auto-capitalization was on

> When **Spelling Autocorrect** was active and had Capitalization enabled (ie had `autocorrect_capitalize: true` set), any inline formatting applied at the beginning of a new sentence, after a full stop (period) but before the start of the word, would be lost when the word was auto-capitalized. Instead the format at the end of the previous sentence was incorrectly applied. 

Reviewer 2: I'm going to suggest having a comma after `Instead`, but this all seems so intentional that I should probably just start accepting my comma instincts are wrong.

Author: Suggestion taken.

Not having the comma is intentional, but inferred commas (popular with typographers with a minimalist æsthetic and, consequently, editors with similar taste — <cough>) are a judgement call.

This update to the **Spelling Autocorrect** premium plugin removed redundant ‘pre-text’ punctuation, before the word at the start of the sentence being capitalized, from start and replacement of text-pattern.

As a consequence, formatting is now retained when the word is capitalized, as expected.

[[accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes]]
== Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Premium Skins and Icon Packs**.

=== Premium Skins and Icon Packs

The **Premium Skins and Icon Packs** release includes the following updates:

The **Premium Skins and Icon Packs** were rebuilt to pull in the changes also incorporated into the default {productname} 6.3 skin, Oxide.

For information on using premium skins and icon packs, see: xref:premium-skins-and-icons.adoc[Premium Skins and Icon Packs].

[[improvements]]
== Improvements

{productname} 6.3 also includes the following improvements

> === The Text color and Background color menus now display a checkmark denoting the currently selected color.

Reviewer 2: I think the issue here is that there are two issues here, but they are really just one. One improvement can't exist without the other. Should we really have two issues?

Author: The anwer to _why are there two entries for this?_, at least from our workflow perspective, is simple.

Although both entries are drawn from the same ticket, [Tiny-9283](https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9283), there are two entries in the [TinyMCE ChangeLog](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce/blob/develop/modules/tinymce/CHANGELOG.md).

1. The write-up in the **Changes** section: *Keyboard navigation in the Text color and Background color menus now starts on the currently selected color if that color is present*.
This is expanded from [Colorswatch keyboard navigation now starts on currently selected color if present in the colorswatch. #TINY-9283](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce/blob/5a0b117e9afc1b20f91daa8308e5f9f5cd44ac81/modules/tinymce/CHANGELOG.md?plain=1#L41)

2. The write-up in the Improvments setion: *The Text color and Background color menus now display a checkmark denoting the currently selected color*.
This is expanded from [Colorswatch now displays a checkmark for selected color. #TINY-9283](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce/blob/5a0b117e9afc1b20f91daa8308e5f9f5cd44ac81/modules/tinymce/CHANGELOG.md?plain=1#L46)

Because our remit is to do a full write-up of each listed change in the ChangeLog.

This isn’t an iron law, but absent timely information showing why, for example, two ChangeLog entries are better explained in one write-up, we treat each ChangeLog entry as if it is reasonable and important that it exists as a discrete entry.

The `color_default_foreground` and `color_default_background` colors are pre-defined by including them in `tinymce.init`

In the example below, the foreground color is set to red and the background color is set to a shade of cyan.

As the example shows, these colors can be defined by either name or hex #.

[source,js]
----
<script type="text/javascript">
tinymce.init({
    selector: "textarea",
	color_default_background: 'red',
	color_default_foreground: '#0DEDFF',
	toolbar: 'forecolor backcolor fontsize'
});
</script>
----

=== Placing block elements inside anchor tags is now supported.

Previously, {productname} only supported placing inline elements — such as `+<strong></strong>+` or `+<code></code>+` — inside anchor tags

{productname} 6.3 adds support for wrapping anchor tags around block level elements.

For example, the following is now supported:

[source,html]
----
<a href="https://example.com/"><p>Link text inside <code>&lt;p&gt;</code> tags.</p></a>
----

=== Added `ToggleToolbarDrawer` event to subscribe to toolbar’s opening and closing. 

> {productname} 6.3 includes a new event, `ToggleToolbarDrawer`, to subscribe to the toolbar's opening and closing actions.

Author: ```suggestion
{productname} 6.3 includes a new event, `ToggleToolbarDrawer`, to subscribe to the toolbar’s opening and closing actions.
```

> In previous versions of {productname}, when the `ToggleToolbarDrawer` command was set to `toolbar_mode: "sliding"` or `toolbar_mode: “floating”,` the `ToggleToolbarDrawer` did not create an opening or closing event.

Reviewer 2: Smart quote inconsistency.

With {productname} 6.3, the new `ToggleToolbarDrawer` event has been introduced. When the `ToggleToolbarDrawer` command is triggered, the new event initializes an `onToggle` callback that propagates the `OuterContainer` component for `SplitSlidingToolbar` and `SplitFloatingToolbar`.

> 

Reviewer 2: This isn't the right focus. The only public facing part is this: 

* We added a `ToggleToolbarDrawer` event which gets passed {state: true, or state: false} depending on whether the toolbar is now visible or invisible.

Once the `OuterContainer` component event is triggered, the console records either a `true` or `false` action that calls on the `onToggled` callback which supports the `FloatingToolbarButton` and `SplitFloatingToolbar` components.

[[changes]]
== Changes

> {productname} 6.3 also incorporates the following changes:

Reviewer 2: It still seems odd that we are separating this from the other color picker things because this is dependent on that first change, but I'll just accept it and move on.

----

the string _non-editable text_ could not be dragged to before the opening `+<p>+` tag.

{productname} 6.3 can place a fake insertion point next to elements with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute when another element with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute is dragged, allowing the object to be moved before and after other such elements.

=== The restored selection or location after a redo or undo action was not scrolled into view.

Prior to the {productname} 6.3 release, executing an undo or redo function in the editor did not scroll the editor to the new insertion point or selection, should the undo or redo result in the insertion point or selection being out of the current viewport.

Instead, users had to manually scroll to the insertion point or selection after issuing an undo or redo command that resulted in the insertion point or selection being out of view.

As of the {productname} 6.3 release, the scroll function now repositions the insertion point to the last known undo or redo location.

=== A newline could not be inserted after an inline element with a contenteditable="false" attribute was created.

> In previous versions of {productname}, a newline could not be inserted when the selection was restored from a ‘bookmark’ positioning after adding an inline element with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute.

Reviewer 2: Smart quotes around `bookmark` look wrong.

> This was most commonly seen by pressing the *Return* (or *Enter*) key not moving the insertion point to a new line after a merge tag was created in the editor.

Reviewer 2: We probably need a search and replace with a consistent capitalisation of Merge Tag

Author: > We probably need a search and replace with a consistent capitalisation of Merge Tag

Agreed.

That said, this particular instance is correct of itself. This _merge tag_ is referring to a `{{<string-here>}}` instance in a document. So, the denoting term is a common-or-garden-variety noun-phrase. So, no capitals unless the first word in the phrase is also the first word in a sentence.

> For {productname} 6.3, a fix was applied to the core `SelectionOverrides` settings to ensure the user selection restores from the ‘bookmark’ positioning before and after an inline element with a `contenteditable="false"` attribute is created.

Reviewer 2: Smart quotes around bookmark.

Reviewer 2: Hmm. It seems intentional. I probably just don't know the syntax. Ignore.

Author: It is intentional but, as the bunny who put the quotes around the word, it’s also something of a desperation device.

I believe the word is being used here as a developer’s [term-of-art](https://dictionary.com/browse/term-of-art). And this term-of-art use, while recognisable drawing from the more general term, is _not_ the broader computer-specific meaning, nor the word’s pre-computer meaning.

So the quotes are my desperation device to denote _this word doesn’t denote quite what you likely assume it does_.

I’ve removed them. In their place is the hope that the audience is developer-centric enough to parse the word as a term-of-art.

=== Checkmark over the current color is not displayed when ‘Text color’ or ‘Background color’ is accessed from the {productname} menu

The *Text color* and *Background color* commands set the color of the selected text and the background behind the selected text respectively.

Depending on the {productname} configuration, these commands can be accessed from the *Format* menu or from the {productname} toolbar, or both.

And, when selected text or the background behind selected text is set to one of the colors available from the swatch presented by both commands, a checkbox appears over that color when these commands are selected and the swatch is opened.

As of {productname} 6.3, however, this checkmark does not appear if the *Text color* or *Background color* commands are opened via the *Format* menu. The checkmark does, however, appear when the equivalent toolbar button menus are opened.

This presentation issue does not affect functionality. Selecting a new *Text color* or *Background color*, either via the *Format* menu or the toolbar, changes the selected text color or the selected text’s background color, as expected.

> A workaround is to display the {productname} toolbar with the *Text color* and *Background color* options and access these commands from the toolbar. The checkmark appears in the 

Reviewer 2: The checkmark appears in the ..... ?

Author: I don’t know where that sentence was going but it isn’t necessary in any event. So it’s now gone completely.

==== The selection now expands to encompass the word containing the insertion point when a comment is added

{productname} 6.3 adds xref:additions[two new API functions] — `tinymce.selection` and `tinymce.dom.RangeUtils`.

With these two functions available, if there is no selected text when a new comment is added, {productname} automatically extends the selection to encompass the word containing the insertion point and links the newly added comment to this automatically selected word.

For information on the **Comments** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-comments.adoc[Introduction to Tiny Comments].

=== Merge Tags 1.1.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes an accompanying release of the **Merge Tags** premium plugin.

**Merge Tags** 1.1.0 includes one addition, one fix, and one change:

==== New mceMergeTag command to wrap selected content in a merge tag

A new command, `mceMergeTag` has been added which can convert the current editor context into a merge tag. This new command is available to use when defining xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[Text Patterns].

> Previously only a predefined list of merge tags could be used. When the new `mceMergeTag` command is added to `text_patterns`, any text selection content can be converted into a merge tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously only a predefined list of merge tags could be used. When the new `mceMergeTag` command is added, any text selection content can be converted into a merge tag.
```

* xref:accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes[Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes]
* xref:improvements[Improvements]
* xref:additions[Additions]
* xref:changes[Changes]
* xref:bug-fixes[Bug fixes]
* xref:security-fixes[Security fixes]
* xref:known-issues[Known issues]

[[new-premium-plugins]]
== New Premium plugins

=== Inline CSS 1.0.0

The {productname} 6.3 release includes the new **Inline CSS** premium plugin.

The Inline CSS plugin allows the user to <notes here>.

For information on the **Inline CSS** plugin, see: xref:inline-css.adoc[Inline CSS].

=== Advanced Typography 1.0.1

The {productname} 6.3 release includes the new **Advanced typography** premium plugin.

The **Advanced Typography** plugin, depending on its setting, can replace common typewriter-style characters with their professional typesetter equivalents after the _Advanced Typography_ button is pressed. This action will modify either the entire content for the {productname} document or the specific text selection highlighted by the user.

For information on the **Advanced typography** plugin, see: xref:advanced-typography.adoc[Advanced typography].

> There are several known issues in **Advanced Typography** 1.0.0:

Reviewer 8: Please update version number -> 1.0.1

Author: To quote my commit message:

> 1. Removed known issue that has been fixed and is no longer a known issue.
> 2. Corrected version number in the body of the Advanced Typography section.
> 3. Edited the intro sentence to the Advanced Typography known issues sub-section: there is only one known issue so switched said sentence from plural to singular.

The British English typesetting norm is to use opening and closing single-quote marks to denote direct quotation: *‘* and *’*.

The American English typesetting norm is to use opening and closing double-quote marks to denote direct quotation: *“* and *”*.

And one Spanish typesetting norm is to use guillemets, also known as comillas angulares, comillas franceses or chevrons, to denote direct quotation: *«* and *»*.

So, for example, if a {productname} document included a string thus:

[source,text]
----
"They went that way," he said, pointing.
----

Selecting _English (US)_ from the *Advanced Typography* toolbar icon’s pop-up menu transforms the text, as expected, into

[source,text]
----
“They went that way,” he said, pointing.
----

Following this action by, then, selecting _Spanish_ from the *Advanced Typography* toolbar icon’s pop-up menu, however, can result in the following incomplete typesetting change:

[source,text]
----
«They went that way, ” he said, pointing.
----

As of this release the only workaround is to not change *Advanced Typography* target languages.

> ==== The Advanced Typography plugin erroneously honors the current SpellChecker Pro language selection

Reviewer 8: @brian-forte Please remove this issue from list as this is fixed now by this ticket. Its verified by QA. https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-9413

Author: To quote my commit message:

> 1. Removed known issue that has been fixed and is no longer a known issue.
> 2. Corrected version number in the body of the Advanced Typography section.
> 3. Edited the intro sentence to the Advanced Typography known issues sub-section: there is only one known issue so switched said sentence from plural to singular.
